## README for 0x0C-unity-ar_slingshot_game ##
### A directory within the holbertonschool-unity repo ###
<br>
This is the second Holberton project with AR capabilities.
<br><br>
The purpose of this project is to create a "slingshot" game in which the application detects a horizontal plane and generate moving targets on top of it. The user can then launch projectiles to hit the targets for points, creating an interaction between a screen and the user's physical space.
<br><br>
First, a new Unity project was created with the following packages: <ul><li>AR Foundation</li><li>ARKit XR Plugin</li><li>ARCore XR Plugin</li><li>XR Plugin Management</li></ul> Both `AR Kit Loader` and `AR Core Loader` were added under plugin providers for iOS and Android. After this set up, a scene called `ARSlingshotGame` was finally created, along with the `AR Session` GameObject and an `AR Camera`. An `AR Plane Manager` was also created in which the `AR Session Origin` and `AR Plane Manager` scripts were attached to it. In this step, there should be a functionality added to the application in which the device's camera should detect only horizontal planes, providing visual feedback when it's detected on their locations and dimensions. These planes should be anchored as well so they won't move even when the device or camera does.
<br><br>
Once the application can detect planes, the player should then be able to choose the specific plane they want to play on. A script is attached to the `ARPlaneManager` with the following functionality:<ul><li>The player should be able to tap an `ARPlane` on their device screen.</li><li>This plane should then be saved into a static variable while the rest are discarded. </li><li>A `Start` button should be displayed on the center of the screen after the player selected a plane.</li></ul>
<br>
Next, targets were implemented into the application. This was done by creating a new Prefab called `Target`, which are Capsule GameObjects. They were then given the behavior of moving within the bounds of the detected plane, along with the following requirements:<ul><li>Being instantiated only once a plane has been selected, and ontop of it as if they were on a real-life surface.</li><li>The scaling must be based on the distance of the plane from the camera/device, so they appear smaller the farther away they are.</li><li>Only moving in the X or Z directions randomly and individually.</li><li>They must have colliders and the amount should be controlled through a field in the inspector, which should be defaulted to 5.</li></ul>
<br>
Another Prefab is then created, this time being a Sphere GameObject called `Ammo`. Behavior was then added to this Prefab so when instantiated, it would be positioned in the center of the player's device screen. In order for `Ammo` to behave as a slingshot should, then:<ul><li>The player should be able to touch and drag `Ammo`.</li><li>On release, `Ammo` should launch forward from the position it was dragged to.</li><li>The length of the vector between the `Ammo`'s starting position and the length of the drag affects the force applied to `Ammo` on launch. Meaning a longer drag causes a more powerful force.</li><li>`Ammo` should be affected by gravity and start falling towards the plane after peak trajectory.</li><li>If the `Ammo` hits a target, plane, or falls out of the plane, then it should reset.</li></ul>
<br>
After that, a vertical UI layout for the game was added with the following elements:<ul><li>`Start` button</li><li>`Restart` button</li><li>`Quit` button</li><li>`Score` display</li><li>`Ammo` display</li></ul> The `Start` button is displayed when the player selects a plane to game on, and once pressed, initializes `Ammo`. The `Restart` button resets the player's selected plane, score, `Ammo`, and `Targets. It restarts the application back to the initial plane detection phase. The `Quit` button just quits or exits the application. The `Score` display updates the score value for each `Target` hit by `Ammo`, being worth at `10` points each. The `Ammo` display hows how much `Ammo` the player has left, initially being `7` and decreasing by `1` on each launch.
<br><br>
Then, when the `Ammo` count reaches `0` or all Targets are eliminated, a button is displayed so the player can replay if they want to. This button is called `PlayAgainButton` with the text `Play again?`. On click, `Ammo` returns to its max value, all `Target`s should be reset, and the `Score` should go back to `0`. When this button is clicked, the player's selected plane is not reset as the `Play again?` button retains this plane for replay. it's the `restart` button that allows for different plane selection.
<br><br>
In addition to the mandatory tasks, a `LineRenderer` is then added to `Ammo`. This addition means that once `Ammo` is pulled back, a line indicating the direction and arc the `Ammo` will follow on release is shown.
<br><br>
Lastly, the builds of this AR Slingshot Game had to be made. There was only one scene, `ARSlingshotGame` in the build for iOS and Android.
<br><br>
Afterward, there were advanced tasks available that would add even more things to the application. First, a method of saving high scores and displaying them should be implemented. It should display when the `Ammo` runs out, showing the top 3 scores at least, and persisting even through game exit. Secondly, the `Target` Capsule and `Ammo` Sphere should be replaced with proper 3D models and/or animations. The last advanced task adds audio cues to the application. Adding a sound effect for one or more of the following:<ul><li>When `Ammo` is launched</li><li>When `Ammo` hits a `Target`</li><li>When `Ammo` misses a `Target` and hits the detected plane</li><li>When the game starts</li><li>When the game is over</li><li>When a button is pressed</li></ul>
<br><br><br>
Credit:
<br><br>
The Unity Scene and Assets Used:
Download Link: https://s3.amazonaws.com/intranet-projects-files/holbertonschool-cs-unity/assets_042019.zip
